{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2757
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16780\viewh20160\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Maverick Espinosa\
Write Up for Part A hw1\
02/02/2024\
\
The algorithms I developed for my assignment relied on the grammatical rules for the usages of periods as well as common patterns that occur when periods are used with certain words/punctuation/parts of speech. For instance, the most basic pattern I implemented that drastically increased the accuracy of my model is to check if the first letter in the first word after the period is uppercase or not. Next, I focused on other more obvious grammatical usages for periods such as using unlikely proper nouns at the start of a new sentence. Another feature that considerably increased my accuracy was checking if the words after the period were periods since it wouldn\'92t make sense to start a new sentence if these words were periods. Other notable algorithms used were to check for sentence internals and abbreviations nearby the period since its highly probable a period will follow a these type of words. One thing I found surprising was that my model didn\'92t improve at all even when I tested it with other models from the scikit learn package. Some of the other models I tested were the GradientBoostingClassifier, SVC, and RandomForestClassifier. In fact, SVC and GradientBoostingClassifier took longer and dropped my models accuracy substantially. RandomForestClassifier appeared to report similar accuracies, but the prediction time appeared to take longer so I decided to stick with the original DecisionTreeClassifier. Utilizing the error file was very helpful in seeing exactly what test cases my model was having trouble predicting as well as what patterns in sentences I had not considered. For example, that is how I determined that it might be useful to check the use of periods after the period reference spot. One common error I had trouble correcting was determining cases when the period marked the end of the sentence. I noticed that in these cases, some of my features that I included might contradict some of my other features in very specific scenarios possibly leading to confusion in determining the right classification. For instance, my model indicates EOS when the first character in the word after the period is upper case, but there are instances when this word could be a quote since quotation marks go after the period. I tried to account for these cases, but in the end I felt like the amount of detailed cases got to a limit of complexity that I wasn\'92t willing to put in the time to sort out. Overall my model seems to be averaging an EOS precision of 1.00, and NEOS precision of 0.98. }